# Volumes
Volumes in Docker provide a way to persist data generated by containers and ensure that the data survives container restarts. Let's explore how volumes work and how they can be used to persist data in a MongoDB container.

# Without Volumes
By default, when you run a MongoDB container without specifying a volume, the data stored inside the container is lost when the container is stopped or restarted. Here's an example:

Start a MongoDB container:
**```docker run -p 27017:27017 -d mongo```**

Open MongoDB Compass and connect to the running container. Add some data to the database.

Kill the container:
**```docker kill <container_id>```**

Restart the container:
**```docker run -p 27017:27017 -d mongo```**

Open MongoDB Compass again and try to explore the database. You will notice that the data you added earlier is no longer present. This is because the data was stored within the container's filesystem, which is ephemeral and gets destroyed when the container is stopped.

# With Volumes
To persist data across container restarts, you can use Docker volumes. Volumes are managed by Docker and provide a way to store data outside the container's filesystem. Here's how you can use volumes with a MongoDB container:

Create a volume:
**```docker volume create volume_database```**

Start a MongoDB container and mount the volume to the `/data/db` directory (where MongoDB stores its data):
**`docker run -v volume_database:/data/db -p 27017:27017 -d mongo`**

The `-v` flag is used to mount the `volume_database` volume to the `/data/db directory` inside the container.

Open MongoDB Compass and connect to the running container. Add some data to the database.

Kill the container:
**`docker kill <container_id>`**

Restart the container, making sure to mount the same volume:
**`docker run -v volume_database:/data/db -p 27017:27017 -d mongo`**

Open MongoDB Compass again and explore the database. You will notice that the data you added earlier is still present. This is because the data is stored in the `volume_database` volume, which persists even when the container is stopped or restarted.
 
By using volumes, you can ensure that important data generated by containers is stored separately from the container's filesystem. This allows the data to survive container restarts and enables data persistence across different container instances.

##### Additional Volume Commands:

Here are a few additional commands related to volumes in Docker:

1. List all volumes:
**`docker volume ls`**

2. Inspect a specific volume:
**`docker volume inspect <volume_name>`**

3. Remove a volume:
**`docker volume rm <volume_name>`**

4. Remove all unused volumes:
**`docker volume prune`**
 
It's important to note that volumes are managed by Docker and are stored in a specific directory on the Docker host. By default, volumes are stored in `/var/lib/docker/volumes` on Linux systems.
 